# CDC RIF 4.0 Progress Report May 2017

## Highlights

* SQL Server data loading running. 
* SQL Server database instralled in Atlanta.
* SQL Server middleware running apart from run study. Database extract and R code tested succsessfully.

## May Summary

**Week**|**Week Starting**|**PH**|**KG**|**DM**|**BP**|**MD**|**Milestone**|**Notes**
:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:
 | | | | | | | | 

## Planned work for June and July

### June Plans

Work plan for June to be agreed ?/?/2017:

1. Brandon: 
2. David: 
3. Peter: Fix database bugs, assist CDC with install, test middleware and data loader on both ports

Expected highlights this month:

1. Brandon: 
2. David: 
3. Peter: 

**Week**|**Week Starting**|**PH**|**DM**|**BP**|**Milestone**|**Notes**
:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:
 | | | | | | 

23|05 June 2017|UK COA 2011 tiles|Risk analysis|Not allocated| | 
24|12 June 2017|Not yet allocated (fault fixing)|Risk analysis R scripts|Risk analysis R scripts| | 
25|19 June 2017|UK COA 2011 tiles|Risk analysis| | | 
26|26 June 2017|UK COA 2011 tiles|Risk analysis| | | 
27|03 July 2017|Holiday|Holiday|SAHSU RIF data statistical testing| | 
28|10 July 2017|Holiday|Holiday|SAHSU RIF data statistical testing| | 
29|17 July 2017|Holiday|Risk analysis integration|Risk analysis integration| | 
30|24 July 2017|Holiday|Risk analysis integration|Risk analysis integration| | 
31|31 July 2017|Holiday|Risk analysis integration|Risk analysis integration| | 
32|07 August 2017| | | |Risk analysis| 
33|14 August 2017|SAHSU RIF install|SAHSU RIF install|SAHSU RIF install| | 
34|21 August 2017|SAHSU RIF data load| |SAHSU RIF data load| | 
35|28 August 2017|SAHSU RIF data load| |SAHSU RIF data load|SAHSU RIF operational| 

## Data Loader - Brandon

Integration testing SQL Server data loader for SQL server target with Peter using SEER data.

## Front end (webPlatform): Disease Mapping, Data viewer - David

- Moved rifServices test cases to either sql server of pgres versions
- sql server porting for run Study (mostly problems with error checking routines)
- Fixed viewer sex and year for study drop-down middleware methods
- Removed dependency on ui-leaflet directive
- Fixed memory leak in map containers
- Middleware method to get polygon centroids from database (defaults to leaflet getCenter() on error)
- New toolbars for map consistent with standard leaflet tools
- Correct resizing issues in KG's D3 code
- Main navbar is now responsive to page resize

## Middleware

### Web services (rifServices) - David


### Run study batch - DAvid/Peter

- No progress required.

#### R - Brandon

- Removed sparse matrix issues - caused by new faster adajacency functions

### Ontology support - Not allocated
 
- No progress required.

### Node geospatial services (tile-maker) - Peter

* Missing level 4 geography tiles caused by areaid_count=0 in geolevels_sahsuland (SQL statement 327: Update areaid_count 
  column in geolevels table using geometry table); removed areaid_count tests from tiles_sahsuland view
  temporarily. Temporary fix applied.

## Databases

### Postgres - Peter

* Postgres install from export script;
* rif40_run_study.bat with R script now works on Postgres.

### Microsoft SQL server - Peter

* rif40_GetAdjacencyMatrix port for R;
* Study status support;
* Run study completed;
* rif40_run_study.bat with R script now works on SQL Server.

## Documentation 

### User manual - Brandon

* No progress.

### Data Loading - Brandon

- Data loader integration and testing. Issues resolved:
  * Source input data was wrong
  * Primary keys added
  * Age sex group derivation fixed
  
### Example Data - Brandon

- Downloaded and prepared SEER data for the data loader.
- Ran SEER data through data loader

### Geospatial data (Peter)

* No progress required
  
### Data Loading (Geospatial) - Peter

* No progress required

### SQL Server Install - Peter

* Completed. Tested in Atlanta

# Notes from Atlanta.

## Usability aspects
 
* RIF study submission "top row" fields not in line;
* Data loader font size is too small on laptops and not adjustable;
* Consider button to zoom [up] to next smaller resolution geolevel in tile viewer;
* Consider reducing the opacity of unselected areas in leaflet to make small areas more obvious (tile viewer in particular);
* Auto scale web browser font size at smaller screen sizes (so the boxes fit in the screen). Consider warning if screen size is too small until the screen size is big enough (around 600×400 pixels) or the user accepts that the screen is too small. Reduce the font size so that the widest element fits. E.g. http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6112660/how-to-automatically-change-the-text-size-inside-a-div or https://github.com/simplefocus/FlowType.JS. This effects the JQuery UI screens used in the Tile maker; the RIF is much better – there is a problem with the disease mapping icons at small screen sizing (e.g. the CDC projector)
* RIF choropleth  maps: do they need to have a default? Health atlas map setups should grey out other selectors or set them to the correct value and allow modification;
* Population pyramid does not scale (i.e. the axes become unreadable on smaller screens):
 
## Data export ideas
 
* Use R to create a shapefile, add shapefile to middleware extract;
* Basic R maps and tables;
* Use https://github.com/mapbox/leaflet-image to create an SVG map [this may be how it is done now];
* Use d3 to create an SVG map;
* Study summary to be formatted as HTML (i.e. so can be copy/pasted into a document);
* Add ability to define own RIF choropleth map setups
 
## Missing/incomplete features
 
### Needed now:

* Data extract button;
* Support for the smoothing method selected in rif40_studies.  

### Later:

* ICD9 support;
* Multiple outcomes (e.g. icd and oncology) support;
* Predefined groups support;
* Prior modification
 
## Bugs
 
* Valid  password charactersets (e.g. #+). The class FieldValidationUtility has a regex which is removing some characters.
  Awaiting a defintive list from CDC of characters they use
* rif40_startup for SQL Server; create system t_rif40_study_status, rif40_study_status to replace 
  study_status. See if SQL server has the permissions to allow views to run as user so user level rif40_num_denom 
  can be removed.
* Fixing uppercase logons will be added to the fault list (it appears to be a small fault in the rif40_projects view)
* Speed of automatic denominators on Postgres; USA data not appearing (rif40_num_denom issue); sync between top row fields is not correct where no numerators and denominators are available for a geography
* Study default for males/females/both needs to be both.
* Population pyramid does not reflect the investigation selected; i.e. for males only; female results selector is not suppressed; also it is the denominator pyramid and not an annualised population.
* BYM and CAR; sometimes HET for sparser data (many zero cell counts) cause sparse matrix errors. This needs as a minimum to be trapped by exception handers; preferably also deduced logically from the data and a warning returned to the user.
* R .bat script to include CMD line continuation character (^) (to make the file readable!). May need
  ```exit /b %ERRORLEVEL%```
* SQL Server: fix for CURRVAL using a temporary table; populated by the t_rif40_studies ON-INSERT trigger (multi transaction support. This will remove the CURRVAL race condition if a study is created whilst an earlier study is still being processed.
* Middleware needs to commit before running study so that the user can see that the study has been created.
* Add extra statii to studies/investigations for R success/failure/warning. Current states:
  * C: created, not verified; 
  * V: verified, but no other work done; 
  * E: extracted imported or created, but no results or maps created; 
  * R: initial results population, create map table; 
  * U: upgraded record from V3.1 RIF (has an indeterminate state; probably analogous to R.
* Proposed new states:
  * S: R success;
  * F: R failure, R has caught one or more exceptions [depends on the exception handler design]
  * W: R warning.
* No area names in sahsuland geography. Setup is wrong.
 
## Required Security Improvements
 
* Password to be passed to R in the environment; and cleared after script completion.
* Data loader to have logon pane (i.e. do not use a text file).
* Data loader privilege to be minimised: no use of the Postgres administrator account!
* R scripts must use temporary tables; not ordinary tables that are later deleted.
* Middleware: Remove all password strings from logs

## Other Issues
 
* Population counts: are the total for the years selected. i.e. they are the denominator count not the population count.
* A statistical analysis of SAHSULAND is required
* R: user manual to include runnable smoothing example.
* User manual and sahsuland worked example required for data loader tool.
 
## Middleware Debugging/logging
 
* Be able to control debugging in production RIFs. Turn the debugging on/off via a Java properties file. Database run study debugging to auto enable trigger debugging as well.
* Trap run study failures in status table; include full database error context. Transaction should be committed after error to save database context and help to trace the error
* Test Postgres rif40_log() function call speed; if there is a performance issue the only enable debug message on sahsuland_dev (i.e. 
```
IF CURRENT_DATABASE() = 'sahsuland_dev' THEN
         rif_log_pkg.rif40_log(…);
END IF;
```
* Add elapsed time from database transaction start (i.e. in Postgres use now() in messages) to instrument database code (i.e. to trace trigger and procedure execution timings for performance tuning)
* All Java logging to be off by default except for logon, study create and run
* Java to log output from R and database procedure messages
* SQL server logging to be to same standard as Postgres.
 
It will be needed to migrate the study_status table to common rif40_study_status so you can view shared studies.
 
## CDC SQL Server install issues
 
1. Look at the use of an alternative to the rif40 account
   * Assume the core schema is still rif40. 
   * Check if owner checks can be made name independent (i.e. DEFINER); or would role checks be adequate
   * Check for hardcoded owners in functions; especially triggers, CURRVAL code;
2. Remove or provide alternative to master database error messages
 
## Testing
 
* Test plan; create system requirements to form test requirements
* Batch mode; run study JSON to completion; check results against results JSON. This will facilitate regression testing.


