# CDC RIF 4.0 Progress report June 2015

## Highlight

This months milestones were:

a) Generating a ZIP file of RIF study extract and results data and;
b) Videos of the Disease mapping Study submission and the data viewer were created.

## Data Loader - Kevin

The data loader priority is having the RIF support an XML-based workflow engine that will load CSV files into the following areas 
of the RIF schema:

* Numerator health data [Target August 2015];
* Denominator data;
* Covariate data;
* Geo-spatial data. It is envisaged that the RIF will load a series of shapefiles; simplify and convert 
  them into the correct internal database formats and generate the tiles required for the webPlatform.

The data loader will be both data centric (i.e. driven by the input data) and process centric (driven by 
the processing states). 
  
https://github.com/smallAreaHealthStatisticsUnit/rapidInquiryFacility/blob/master/Progress%20Reports/KevinGarwood_WeekJune152015.md
  
## Front end (webPlatform)

### Disease Mapping - Fred

No progress until a new Javascript developer is hired.

### Data viewer - Fred

The data viewer prototype is currently frozen until it can be integrated into the Middleware.

## Middleware

### Web services (rifServices) - Kevin

The key method to generate a ZIP file containing the original query from Disease submission, files containing the both the 
extracted and processed database health data and information governance documents. This will form part of the batch; so on submitting a 
study the user can either wait until the study completes or come back later to download the ZIP file.

A full report is at: https://github.com/smallAreaHealthStatisticsUnit/rapidInquiryFacility/blob/master/Progress%20Reports/KevinGarwoodProgressReport.md

This work will be fully handled over to Nan Lin from July to allow Kevin to work full time on the data loader. 

### Run study batch - Nan

### Ontology support - Nan

## Databases

### Postgres - Peter

Work in this period focussed on Tomcat integration, with a clean build direct from github achieved. Tomcat 6-8 confirmed 
as working with the new RIF. A SQL test harness for SELECT (data fetch) and INSERT/UPDATE/DELETE (data manipulation triggers) statements. 
SELECT tests checks returned data; trigger exceptions are verified. Exception handlers and error messages were improved.

Focus in the next period will be on the test harness to allow the SQL server port to be verified. This will be followed 
by RIF batch integration and the creation of test data for RIF data loader.

A full report is at: https://github.com/smallAreaHealthStatisticsUnit/rapidInquiryFacility/blob/master/Progress%20Reports/Peter%20Hambly.md

### Microsoft SQL server - Margaret

Steady progress on triggers, in particular the key T_RIF40_STUDIES trigger which validates study submission.

The goal for June is to complete all triggers (including logging and error handling) for the rif40 tables and
views and to test the tables/views/triggers to confirm everything has been set up correctly.

A full report is at: https://github.com/smallAreaHealthStatisticsUnit/rapidInquiryFacility/blob/master/Progress%20Reports/Margaret%20Douglass.md



 

 
