# CDC RIF 4.0 Progress report May 2015

## Highlight

This months milestone was the successful demonstration of a study submission from the web platform.

## Data Loader - Kevin

No work this period; Kevin's focus was on the middleware RIF services.

## Front end (webPlatform)

### Disease Mapping - Fred

Fred managed to submit a disease mapping study request to the middleware before he left and to document his work on the webPltform. 
The webPltform was tested together with middleware built from github. A detailed report is at: 
https://github.com/smallAreaHealthStatisticsUnit/rapidInquiryFacility/blob/master/Progress%20Reports/Federico%20Fabbri.md

Testing of the front end showed issues with hard coded http://localhost mniddleware calls. This cases a browser error (known as 
pernicious mixed content) Peter will resolve this problem shortly. When this is fixed and the test web server has been made more secure 
we will open it up for demonstrations and testing. Security testing so far has shown the need to add additional code to prevent 
man in the middle and replay attacks. Both attack vectors are difficult to exploit as the test server will use https://. The 
final security fix will likely be in the Autumn.

The documentation is at: https://github.com/smallAreaHealthStatisticsUnit/rapidInquiryFacility/blob/master/rifWebPlatform/web/Documentation/README.md 

### Data viewer - Fred

The data viewer prototype is currently frozen until it can be integrated into the Middleware.

## Middleware

### Web services (rifServices) - Kevin

The main focus in the webServices middleware has on the successful integration between the Disease mapping web platform and the Postgres 
database. This has enabled this months key milestone above to be met. In addition, middleware calls to run a study and and extract a 
completed study were created. 

Considerable work was carried out on the validation processes in the middleware and in documentation.

A full report is at: https://github.com/smallAreaHealthStatisticsUnit/rapidInquiryFacility/blob/master/Progress%20Reports/KevinGarwoodProgressReport.md

This work will be fully handled over to Nan Lin from July to allow Kevin to work full time on the data loader. 

### Run study - Nan

A prototype was built to be able to call the database level rif40_run_Study() function. Currently the middleware is calling this function 
directly. This will remove the requirement for a user to stay logged on whilst a study runs. This is expected to be completed in July/early August 
[This requires Peter's input in testing and integration]  

### Ontology support - Nan

Ontology support aim to provide lookups for ICD9, ICD10, ICD oncology, UK Hospital episode statstics A+E and operation codes.
In the first phase ICD 9/10 will be support. As these are WHO copyright, the RIF will built the ontologies from WHO ICD10 downloads.
ICD9 will be best efforts from SAHSU historic data; other ontologies can be supported.

Prototype code was written to build up an ICD 10 code repository. If a user provides an ICD 10 code, the repository can give 
the corresponding description with its children and parent code (if available). The detail of the description does not include “Incl.” 
and “Excl.” parts coming with the code description assuming the web page has limited space to display such information.

## Databases

### Postgres - Peter

1. Middleware integration fixes allowing a study be be successfully submitted by the end of the month.
2. Regression testing and porting to Linux and MacOS; Tomcat and Apache build, test and integrate.

Postgres is now building and testing very cleanly on all three platforms. Work in the next period will focus on a trigger test harness 
so that the SQL server port can be validated as working the same.

A full report is at: https://github.com/smallAreaHealthStatisticsUnit/rapidInquiryFacility/blob/master/Progress%20Reports/Peter%20Hambly.md

### Microsoft SQL server - Margaret
 
This month was dedicated to completing scripts necessary to create all tables and views in the rif40 schema and the required functions 
and objects needed for the creation of tables and views.

Work in April evaluating previous work on the SQL server port showed that the three test harness tables are missing; some of the 
table validation triggers and none of the view and associated insert triggers where present. This was as expected. During may the views 
and associated triggers were completed. This includes the key RIF40_NUM_DENOM view that lists onlky the numerators and denominators 
that the user has access to.

A full report is at: https://github.com/smallAreaHealthStatisticsUnit/rapidInquiryFacility/blob/master/Progress%20Reports/Margaret%20Douglass.md



 

 
