# CDC RIF 4.0 Progress Report July 2015

## Highlight

No milestones.

## Data Loader - Kevin

The data loader priority is having the RIF support an XML-based workflow engine that will load CSV files into the following areas 
of the RIF schema:

* Numerator health data [Target August 2015];
* Denominator data;
* Covariate data;
* Geo-spatial data. It is envisaged that the RIF will load a series of shapefiles; simplify and convert 
  them into the correct internal database formats and generate the tiles required for the webPlatform. 
  The conversion will be using Node.js web services.

The data loader will be both data centric (i.e. driven by the input data) and process centric (driven by 
the processing states). 

Good progress is being made on the graphical loaded, a dis-aggregated sahsuland_cancer test dataset has 
been produced by Margaret for Kevin to test with.

https://github.com/smallAreaHealthStatisticsUnit/rapidInquiryFacility/blob/master/Progress%20Reports/Kevin%20Garwood/KevinGarwoodJuly62015.md 
https://github.com/smallAreaHealthStatisticsUnit/rapidInquiryFacility/blob/master/Progress%20Reports/Kevin%20Garwood/KevinGarwoodJuly132015.md
https://github.com/smallAreaHealthStatisticsUnit/rapidInquiryFacility/blob/master/Progress%20Reports/Kevin%20Garwood/KevinGarwoodJuly20_2015.md
  
## Front end (webPlatform)

### Disease Mapping - No progress until a new Javascript developer is hired.

### Data viewer - No progress until a new Javascript developer is hired.

The data viewer prototype is currently frozen until it can be integrated into the Middleware.

## Middleware

### Web services (rifServices) - Handed over to Nan

Convert the prototype code developed last month into ICD10ClaMLTaxonomyProvider class in rifServices.taxonomyservices package, which implements RIF HealthCodeProviderInterface. This class provides an interpretation of ICD 10 code service and then save results into an internal HashMap container. As a result:
- The tree structure of the ICD 10 code is exposed: the class can return the parent and immediate children of a health code.
- Use the label of health code as the key, the HashMap container can quickly return the corresponding taxonomy term when users provide an ICD 10 code label.
- It provides a utility method that can transform a taxonomy term into the corresponding health code.
- Any services that are interested in ICD 10 code can access the HashMap container. 

### Run study batch - Nan

No progress, waiting Peter.

### Ontology support - Nan

Generated ICD 10 "sample" ontology using the Classification Markup (ClaML) Language format used by WHO, removing the dot (".") as is normal 
RIF practice. The code is generic so can process any ClaML ontology.

A full report is at:  https://github.com/smallAreaHealthStatisticsUnit/rapidInquiryFacility/blob/master/Progress%20Reports/Nan%20Lin.md

## Databases

### Postgres, integration - Peter

Work in this period focussed on Tomcat integration, with a clean build direct from github achieved. Tomcat 6-8 confirmed 
as working with the new RIF. A SQL test harness for SELECT (data fetch) and INSERT/UPDATE/DELETE (data manipulation triggers) statements. 
SELECT tests checks returned data; trigger exceptions are verified. Exception handlers and error messages were improved.

Focus in the next period will be on the test harness to allow the SQL server port to be verified. This will be followed 
by RIF batch integration and the creation of test data for RIF data loader.

A full report is at: https://github.com/smallAreaHealthStatisticsUnit/rapidInquiryFacility/blob/master/Progress%20Reports/Peter%20Hambly.md

### Microsoft SQL server - Margaret

All table triggers are now completed; aim for August is view triggers and the trigger test harness.

Test data for RIF data loader. This will convert the existing SAHUSLAND_CANCER into individual record form; keeping the statistical 
properties (i.e. aggregate counts) the same. The following synthetic data will be added:
   
  * Zip code in the format 5N-4N; a Zip code lookup table will be provided later with SAHUSLAND co-ordinates
  * Age
  * Sex
  * Date of birth
  * Date of death
  * Histology
  * Treatment method
  
Deliberate errors will be introduced to the age and year fields, level 3 area id, and the date formats will change between years. There will only be one 
  data cleaning feature per year. This is to facilitate data loader test cases. At a later duplicates will be added.  

A full report is at: https://github.com/smallAreaHealthStatisticsUnit/rapidInquiryFacility/blob/master/Progress%20Reports/Margaret%20Douglass.md



 

 
